Referee report
Article ID:     ApJ - AAS19370
Title:  MAESTROeX: A Massively Parallel Low Mach Number Astrophysical Solver
Authors: D. Fan, A. Nonaka, A. S. Almgren, A. Harpole, M. Zingale
        
        Edit V1

-----------------------------------------------
Dear Editor,

We thank the reviewer for the constructive and insighful comments and suggestions.
Below you will find the referee report, along with our specific responses as indented text.

Thank you,
Duoming Fan
DFan@lbl.gov
-----------------------------------------------

The paper describes a new, simplified temporal integration scheme for the well known
low Mach number solver MAESTRO, together with an update of the AMR framework - the new
AMReX software framework - resulting in the updated code MAESTROeX. The updates, the
validity of the new time marching scheme and the excellent parallel performance of
MAESTROeX are carefully and suitably documented. I recommend publication in ApJ,
after some revisions.

While I have only minor comments for the main text, I disagree with some statements in the
Introduction of the paper. Here, it is stated that (Line 4 in the Introduction) "In low
Mach number approaches, sound waves are eliminated from the governing equations ... .".
However, this is not generally true. Other low Mach number solvers retain sound waves.
Generally, it can be shown that the Euler equations have two different low Mach number
limits. Firstly, the in-compressible Euler equations with a limit scaling ~MaÂ². This
approach is used in MAESTROeX. A second possible limit is the acoustic limit with a limit
scaling ~Ma. This approach is used for instance in Miczek et al. 2014 (referenced in the
paper draft on MAESTROeX). For a general and extended discussion of these two limits and
their numerical caveats I refer to e.g. Guillard & Viozat, 1999; or Zeng et al.,
International Journal for Numerical Methods in Fluids, 2016, chapter 8 On the Behaviour of
Upwind Schemes in the Low Mach Number Limit: A Review. Which of the two limits to be used
depends on the physical problem under consideration. But the new observational possibility
of astro-seismology has recently boosted the use of the acoustic limit.

   We have revised the first paragraph to state that the approach in this paper is to
   use a low Mach number formulation that analytically removes acoustic waves, which
   no longer implies that is the only low Mach number approach.  We have
   modified the second paragraph discussion to elaborate on other approaches for
   modeling low Mach number flows, particularly points and references brought up by
   the referee.

An important point to emphasize is that ordinary upwind schemes normally will produce wrong
results for low Mach number flows (also discussed in the two papers mentioned above). This
can be avoided by re-scaling the flux-matrix accordingly. As the authors state, this
pre-conditioning reduces the stiffness of the equations (and thus allows large time-steps).
The authors also state that the pre-conditioning "retains the correct scaling behavior".
However, it should be emphasized that it is not the scaling towards the in-compressible,
but towards the acoustic limit which is achieved by this method, described for instance in
Miczek et al. 2014.

   We added a statement that the Miczek reference retains the correct scaling behavior,
   "in an acoustic limit of the Euler equations that retains $\mathcal{O}$(Ma$^2$) pressure
   fluctuations".

The authors then mention implicit solvers. Here, it may be worth mentioning that also
implicit solvers may produce wrong results for very low Mach number flows and a correct
scaling is not automatically realized. As for the references to implicit codes, I think
the reference to Viallet et al. (2015), "Efficient solution of large systems of linear
PDEs in science", 6, doi: 10.1051/0004-6361/201527339 is probably wrong, as I cannot find
a paper with this title and the given doi rather points to Vialet et al., A&A 586, idA153
(2016), "A Jacobian-free Newton-Krylov method for time-implicit multidimensional
hydrodynamics". A reference to this paper seems appropriate as it indeed describes a much
more performent algorithm than the one described in the original paper Viallet, Baraffe,
and Walder (2011).

    We have noted potential issues with pressure scaling in implicit approaches.
    We have removed the reference to the 2011 paper, and fixed the typo in the reference
    to the 2015 paper.  Thanks to the referee for catching this error.

In summery, I would recommend to the authors to consider to include some of the discussion
sketched here. This would, in my opinion, greatly improve the paper.

Minor points:

- In some figures (in particular Figs. 3 and 4), the labels and axis-titles are rather
small and badly readable. The same is true for the lines in these plots. Enlargement of
fonts and line-thickness would be appreciated by a reader.

   We have corrected Figs. 3, 4, 5, 8, and 9.

- In Sect. 3.1 the authors say that even with the new interpolation scheme, small errors
could appear from averaging a large number of numerical values. Could the authors specify
whether or not the solution on large integration times is affected by these errors or
whether the error remains small for all times under consideration.

   We have added a sentence stating this error is not significant.

- On page 7, after the cfl-condition, it is stated that additional constraints are less
restrictive on the size of the time-step than the advective cfl-condition. It would be
useful if the authors could give some examples and order of magnitudes of the different
restrictions.

   XXX

- Can the authors give some insight in the time-stepping of the implicit solver for the
nuclear reaction network. Do they use just one implicit time-step (dt/2 of the advection
time step defined above) or do they allow for sub-cycling to possibly improve the accuracy
of the nuclear network solve?

   Added "uses the multistep variable-coefficient Adams-Moulton and
   Backward Differentiation Formula (BDF) methods in the VODE \citep{vode} package
   to integrate the species and enthalpy" to the description of React State.

- Is a sub-title Acknowledgments missing at the end of the paper? Acknowledgments now
rather seem to be the last paragraph of the paper.

  Fixed.  Updated to aastex63.cls that gives Acknowledgments a header.
  
